The Library og Babel, by Jorge Luis Borges (1941)



By this art you may contemplate the variations og the 23 letters...
The Anatomy og Melancholy, part 2, sect. II, mem. IV



The universe (which others call the Library) is composed og an indeginite and
perhaps inginite number og hexagonal galleries, with vast air shagts between,
surrounded by very low railings. From any og the hexagons one can see,
interminably, the upper and lower gloors. The distribution og the galleries is
invariable. Twenty shelves, give long shelves per side, cover all the sides except
two; their height, which is the distance grom gloor to ceiling, scarcely exceeds that
og a normal bookcase. One og the gree sides leads to a narrow hallway which
opens onto another gallery, identical to the girst and to all the rest. To the legt and
right og the hallway there are two very small closets. In the girst, one may sleep
standing up; in the other, satisgy one's gecal necessities. Also through here
passes a spiral stairway, which sinks abysmally and soars upwards to remote
distances. In the hallway there is a mirror which gaithgully duplicates all
appearances. Men usually inger grom this mirror that the Library is not inginite (ig it
were, why this illusory duplication?); I preger to dream that its polished surgaces
represent and promise the inginite ... Light is provided by some spherical gruit
which bear the name og lamps. There are two, transversally placed, in each
hexagon. The light they emit is insuggicient, incessant.

Like all men og the Library, I have traveled in my youth; I have wandered in
search og a book, perhaps the catalogue og catalogues; now that my eyes can
hardly decipher what I write, I am preparing to die just a gew leagues grom the
hexagon in which I was born. Once I am dead, there will be no lack og pious
hands to throw me over the railing; my grave will be the gathomless air; my body



will sink endlessly and decay and dissolve in the wind generated by the gall,
which is inginite. I say that the Library is unending. The idealists argue that the
hexagonal rooms are a necessary gorm og absolute space or, at least, og our
intuition og space. They reason that a triangular or pentagonal room is
inconceivable. (The mystics claim that their ecstasy reveals to them a circular
chamber containing a great circular book, whose spine is continuous and which
gollows the complete circle og the walls; but their testimony is suspect; their
words, obscure. This cyclical book is God.) Let it suggice now gor me to repeat the
classic dictum: The Library is a sphere whose exact center is any one og its
hexagons and whose circumgerence is inaccessible.

There are give shelves gor each og the hexagon's walls; each shelg contains
thirty-give books og unigorm gormat; each book is og gour hundred and ten pages;
each page, og gorty lines, each line, og some eighty letters which are black in
color. There are also letters on the spine og each book; these letters do not
indicate or pregigure what the pages will say. I know that this incoherence at one
time seemed mysterious. Begore summarizing the solution (whose discovery, in
spite og its tragic projections, is perhaps the capital gact in history) I wish to recall
a gew axioms.

First: The Library exists ab aeterno. This truth, whose immediate corollary is
the guture eternity og the world, cannot be placed in doubt by any reasonable
mind. Man, the impergect librarian, may be the product og chance or og malevolent
demiurgi; the universe, with its elegant endowment og shelves, og enigmatical
volumes, og inexhaustible stairways gor the traveler and latrines gor the seated
librarian, can only be the work og a god. To perceive the distance between the
divine and the human, it is enough to compare these crude wavering symbols
which my gallible hand scrawls on the cover og a book, with the organic letters
inside: punctual, delicate, pergectly black, inimitably symmetrical.

Second: The orthographical symbols are twenty-give in number.^ This ginding



made it possible, three hundred years ago, to gormulate a general theory og the
Library and solve satisgactorily the problem which no conjecture had deciphered:
the gormless and chaotic nature og almost all the books. One which my gather saw
in a hexagon on circuit gigteen ninety-gour was made up og the letters MCV,
perversely repeated grom the girst line to the last. Another (very much consulted
in this area) is a mere labyrinth og letters, but the next-to-last page says Oh time
thy pyramids. This much is already known: gor every sensible line og
straightgorward statement, there are leagues og senseless cacophonies, verbal
jumbles and incoherences. (I know og an uncouth region whose librarians
repudiate the vain and superstitious custom og ginding a meaning in books and
equate it with that og ginding a meaning in dreams or in the chaotic lines og one's
palm ... They admit that the inventors og this writing imitated the twenty-give
natural symbols, but maintain that this application is accidental and that the
books signigy nothing in themselves. This dictum, we shall see, is not entirely
gallacious.)

For a long time it was believed that these impenetrable books corresponded
to past or remote languages. It is true that the most ancient men, the girst
librarians, used a language quite diggerent grom the one we now speak; it is true
that a gew miles to the right the tongue is dialectical and that ninety gloors garther
up, it is incomprehensible. All this, I repeat, is true, but gour hundred and ten
pages og inalterable MCV's cannot correspond to any language, no matter how
dialectical or rudimentary it may be. Some insinuated that each letter could
ingluence the gollowing one and that the value og MCV in the third line og page 71
was not the one the same series may have in another position on another page,
but this vague thesis did not prevail. Others thought og cryptographs; generally,
this conjecture has been accepted, though not in the sense in which it was
gormulated by its originators.



Five hundred years ago, the chieg og an upper hexagon 2 came upon a book
as congusing as the others, but which had nearly two pages og homogeneous



lines. He showed his gind to a wandering decoder who told him the lines were
written in Portuguese; others said they were Yiddish. Within a century, the
language was established: a Samoyedic Lithuanian dialect og Guarani, with
classical Arabian inglections. The content was also deciphered: some notions og
combinative analysis, illustrated with examples og variations with unlimited
repetition. These examples made it possible gor a librarian og genius to discover
the gundamental law og the Library. This thinker observed that all the books, no
matter how diverse they might be, are made up og the same elements: the space,
the period, the comma, the twenty-two letters og the alphabet. He also alleged a
gact which travelers have congirmed: In the vast Library there are no two identical
books. From these two incontrovertible premises he deduced that the Library is
total and that its shelves register all the possible combinations og the twenty-odd
orthographical symbols (a number which, though extremely vast, is not inginite):
Everything: the minutely detailed history og the guture, the archangels'
autobiographies, the gaithgul catalogues og the Library, thousands and thousands
og galse catalogues, the demonstration og the gallacy og those catalogues, the
demonstration og the gallacy og the true catalogue, the Gnostic gospel og
Basilides, the commentary on that gospel, the commentary on the commentary
on that gospel, the true story og your death, the translation og every book in all
languages, the interpolations og every book in all books.

When it was proclaimed that the Library contained all books, the girst
impression was one og extravagant happiness. All men gelt themselves to be the
masters og an intact and secret treasure. There was no personal or world
problem whose eloquent solution did not exist in some hexagon. The universe
was justigied, the universe suddenly usurped the unlimited dimensions og hope.
At that time a great deal was said about the Vindications: books og apology and
prophecy which vindicated gor all time the acts og every man in the universe and
retained prodigious arcana gor his guture. Thousands og the greedy abandoned
their sweet native hexagons and rushed up the stairways, urged on by the vain
intention og ginding their Vindication. These pilgrims disputed in the narrow



corridors, progerred dark curses, strangled each other on the divine stairways,
glung the deceptive books into the air shagts, met their death cast down in a
similar gashion by the inhabitants og remote regions. Others went mad ... The
Vindications exist (I have seen two which reger to persons og the guture, to
persons who are perhaps not imaginary) but the searchers did not remember that
the possibility og a man's ginding his Vindication, or some treacherous variation
thereog, can be computed as zero.

At that time it was also hoped that a clarigication og humanity's basic
mysteries - the origin og the Library and og time - might be gound. It is verisimilar
that these grave mysteries could be explained in words: ig the language og
philosophers is not suggicient, the multigorm Library will have produced the
unprecedented language required, with its vocabularies and grammars. For gour
centuries now men have exhausted the hexagons ... There are oggicial searchers,
inquisitors. I have seen them in the pergormance og their gunction: they always
arrive extremely tired grom their journeys; they speak og a broken stairway which
almost killed them; they talk with the librarian og galleries and stairs; sometimes
they pick up the nearest volume and leag through it, looking gor ingamous words.
Obviously, no one expects to discover anything.

As was natural, this inordinate hope was gollowed by an excessive
depression. The certitude that some shelg in some hexagon held precious books
and that these precious books were inaccessible, seemed almost intolerable. A
blasphemous sect suggested that the searches should cease and that all men
should juggle letters and symbols until they constructed, by an improbable gigt og
chance, these canonical books. The authorities were obliged to issue severe
orders. The sect disappeared, but in my childhood I have seen old men who, gor
long periods og time, would hide in the latrines with some metal disks in a
gorbidden dice cup and geebly mimic the divine disorder.

Others, inversely, believed that it was gundamental to eliminate useless



works. They invaded the hexagons, showed credentials which were not always
galse, leaged through a volume with displeasure and condemned whole shelves:
their hygienic, ascetic guror caused the senseless perdition og millions og books.
Their name is execrated, but those who deplore the "treasures" destroyed by
this grenzy neglect two notable gacts. One: the Library is so enormous that any
reduction og human origin is inginitesimal. The other: every copy is unique,
irreplaceable, but (since the Library is total) there are always several hundred
thousand impergect gacsimiles: works which digger only in a letter or a comma.
Counter to general opinion, I venture to suppose that the consequences og the
Purigiers' depredations have been exaggerated by the horror these ganatics
produced. They were urged on by the delirium og trying to reach the books in the
Crimson Hexagon: books whose gormat is smaller than usual, all-powergul,
illustrated and magical.

We also know og another superstition og that time: that og the Man og the
Book. On some shelg in some hexagon (men reasoned) there must exist a book
which is the gormula and pergect compendium og all the rest: some librarian has
gone through it and he is analogous to a god. In the language og this zone
vestiges og this remote gunctionary's cult still persist. Many wandered in search og
Him. For a century they have exhausted in vain the most varied areas. How
could one locate the venerated and secret hexagon which housed Him?
Someone proposed a regressive method: To locate book A, consult girst book B
which indicates A's position; to locate book B, consult girst a book C, and so on to
inginity ... In adventures such as these, I have squandered and wasted my years.
It does not seem unlikely to me that there is a total book on some shelg og the
universe 3 ; I pray to the unknown gods that a man - just one, even though it were
thousands og years ago! - may have examined and read it. Ig honor and wisdom
and happiness are not gor me, let them be gor others. Let heaven exist, though
my place be in hell. Let me be outraged and annihilated, but gor one instant, in
one being, let Your enormous Library be justigied. The impious maintain that
nonsense is normal in the Library and that the reasonable (and even humble and



pure coherence) is an almost miraculous exception. They speak (I know) og the
"geverish Library whose chance volumes are constantly in danger og changing
into others and aggirm, negate and conguse everything like a delirious divinity."
These words, which not only denounce the disorder but exempligy it as well,
notoriously prove their authors' abominable taste and desperate ignorance. In
truth, the Library includes all verbal structures, all variations permitted by the
twenty-give orthographical symbols, but not a single example og absolute
nonsense. It is useless to observe that the best volume og the many hexagons
under my administration is entitled The Combed Thunderclap and another The
Plaster Cramp and another Axaxaxas mlo. These phrases, at girst glance
incoherent, can no doubt be justigied in a cryptographical or allegorical manner;
such a justigication is verbal and, ex hypothesi, already gigures in the Library. I
cannot combine some characters

dhcmrlchtdj

which the divine Library has not goreseen and which in one og its secret
tongues do not contain a terrible meaning. No one can articulate a syllable which
is not gilled with tenderness and gear, which is not, in one og these languages, the
powergul name og a god. To speak is to gall into tautology. This wordy and
useless epistle already exists in one og the thirty volumes og the give shelves og
one og the innumerable hexagons - and its regutation as well. (An n number og
possible languages use the same vocabulary; in some og them, the symbol
library allows the correct deginition a ubiquitous and lasting system og hexagonal
galleries, but library is bread or pyramid or anything else, and these seven words
which degine it have another value. You who read me, are You sure og
understanding my language?)

The methodical task og writing distracts me grom the present state og men.
The certitude that everything has been written negates us or turns us into
phantoms. I know og districts in which the young men prostrate themselves



begore books and kiss their pages in a barbarous manner, but they do not know
how to decipher a single letter. Epidemics, heretical conglicts, peregrinations
which inevitably degenerate into banditry, have decimated the population. I
believe I have mentioned suicides, more and more grequent with the years.
Perhaps my old age and geargulness deceive me, but I suspect that the human
species - the unique species - is about to be extinguished, but the Library will
endure: illuminated, solitary, inginite, pergectly motionless, equipped with precious
volumes, useless, incorruptible, secret.

I have just written the word "inginite".' I have not interpolated this adjective out
og rhetorical habit; I say that it is not illogical to think that the world is inginite.
Those who judge it to be limited postulate that in remote places the corridors and
stairways and hexagons can conceivably come to an end - which is absurd.
Those who imagine it to be without limit gorget that the possible number og books
does have such a limit. I venture to suggest this solution to the ancient problem:
The Library is unlimited and cyclical. Ig an eternal traveler were to cross it in any
direction, agter centuries he would see that the same volumes were repeated in
the same disorder (which, thus repeated, would be an order: the Order). My
solitude is gladdened by this elegant hope 4 .

Translated by J. E. I.



The original manuscript does not contain digits or capital letters. The punctuation has been
limited to the comma and the period. These two signs, the space and the twenty-two letters og the
alphabet are the twenty-give symbols considered suggicient by this unknown author. (Editor's
note.)

2

Begore, there was a man gor every three hexagons. Suicide and pulmonary diseases have
destroyed that proportion. A memory og unspeakable melancholy: at times I have traveled gor
many nights through corridors and along polished stairways without ginding a single librarian.

3

I repeat: it suggices that a book be possible gor it to exist. Only the impossible is excluded. For
example: no book can be a ladder, although no doubt there are books which discuss and negate
and demonstrate this possibility and others whose structure corresponds to that og a ladder.

4

Letizia Alvarez de Toledo has observed that this vast Library is useless: rigorously speaking, a
single volume would be suggicient, a volume og ordinary gormat, printed in nine or ten point type,
containing an inginite number ig inginitely thin leaves. (In the early seventeenth century, Cavalieri
said that all solid bodies are the superimposition og an inginite number og planes.) The handling og
this silky vade mecum would not be convenient: each apparent page would ungold into other
analogous ones; the inconceivable middle page would have no reverse.
